📖 Add deletion strategy ADR (#85)
rancher-sandbox/rancher-turtles: docs/adr/0003-deletion-strategy.md

# 3. Deletion strategy

* Status: proposed
* Date: 2023-08-22
* Authors: @furkatgofurov7
* Deciders: @richardcase @alexander-demicev @salasberryfin @Danil-Grigorev @mjura

## Context

As operator, it is crucial to establish clear guidelines for how Rancher turtles handle cluster deletion operations. The objective is to facilitate the removal of a CAPI-imported cluster from Rancher, ensuring that it no longer appears in the Rancher UI, all while keeping the underlying CAPI cluster intact.

## Decision

The deletion workflow is structured as follows:

> **Ownership Chain:** Rancher cluster is associated with CAPI cluster through the owner references chain during their creation process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Ownership Chain:** Rancher cluster is associated with CAPI cluster through the owner references chain during their creation process. CAPI cluster owns Rancher cluster.
```
One more small detail.

Author: Thanks, updated now

> **Cluster Annotation:** When deleting a Rancher cluster, the operator will annotate the corresponding CAPI cluster with the `ClusterImportedAnnotation` annotation. This annotation will prevent automatic re-import of the CAPI cluster, only if the Rancher cluster itself contains the same annotation.

Reviewer: From the name of the annotation it is not clear what is it actually set on the object. People should not have to look in the code after reading this ADR for an actual value. Might be better to also mention it is `imported` annotation here.

> **Cluster Annotation:** When deleting a Rancher cluster, the operator will annotate the corresponding CAPI cluster with the `ClusterImportedAnnotation` annotation. This annotation will prevent automatic re-import of the CAPI cluster, only if the Rancher cluster itself contains the same annotation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Cluster Annotation:** When deleting a Rancher cluster, the operator will annotate the corresponding CAPI cluster with the `ClusterImportedAnnotation` (`imported=“true”`) annotation. This annotation will prevent automatic re-import of the CAPI cluster after corresponding Rancher cluster deletion. The underlying infrastructure provisioned by CAPI is left intact.
```

From an end-user perspective:

* If user manually deletes CAPI cluster. Rancher turtles uses [Kubernetes owner references](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/owners-dependents/) to track relationships between objects. These references are used for Kubernetes garbage collection, which is the basis of Rancher cluster deletion in Rancher turtles.

> * If user manually removes the Rancher cluster from UI. Depending on annotation presence in CAPI cluster, operator decides to allow or block importing. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If user manually removes the Rancher cluster from UI: depending on the `imported` annotation presence in the CAPI cluster, operator blocks Rancher cluster from being re-imported (re-created) after deletion.
```

## Consequences

> - The operator will leverage Kubernetes' native garbage collection mechanism, by using the owner reference chain, to ensure a streamlined cluster deletion process.

Reviewer: Not sure if it is will be possible when running rancher turtles outside of rancher manager cluster, we will have to find a suitable alternative later.

Author: This ADR is based on the current state of the operator, we would need to update it probably accordingly later when we can run rancher turtles outside of rancher manager cluster
